Story Recapped here.
Today I am going to explain another supernatural
film called "It Follows."
This one is a 2014 horror, mystery, and thriller
written and directed by David Robert Mitchell.
Before we begin, let me give you a spoiler
alert.
Watch out and take care.
The story begins with Jaime Height or Jay,
a 19-year-old college student who is the film's
main protagonist.
She is a student at Oakland University, and
for the teenager, autumn should be about school,
boys and weekends out at the lake.
Jay decides to go on a date with her kind
but mysterious new boyfriend, Hugh.
That night, Hugh shows Jay a young girl in
the back of the theatre, but Jaime tells him
she cannot see any girl.
This makes Hugh disturbed and distressed.
He becomes unnerved and asks Jamie that they
leave.
After that, they decide to go on another date,
and this time Hugh and Jay have sex in his
car, and this is where the story starts to
get more serious.
Everything goes well until later when Hugh
is seen using chloroform to incapacitate Jay.
She wakes up in the Packard Plant, tied to
a wheelchair.
Here, Hugh has become like a stranger, and
he explains to Jay that she will be followed
and pursued by an entity.
So, this is all that they tell us in the movie
description.
"A young girl is followed by an unknown supernatural
force after a sexual encounter."
Further, Hugh tells Jay that this entity can
only be seen by them, and it can take the
appearance of any person.
He tells her that somebody had given it to
him and now he has passed it on to her.
It will follow her everywhere, and once it
catches her, it will kill her and pursue the
previous person who had passed it on, that
is Hugh.
So, that means Jay needs to pass it on to
somebody else before it gets her.
At the Packard Plant, both of them see a naked
woman walking toward them.
They panic.
Hugh takes Jay, drops her off outside her
home, flees, and abandons her.
Now, Jay realizes that she is the latest recipient
of a curse that's fatal and is passed on from
victim to victim through sexual intercourse.
A "thing" is now following her.
Throughout the course of the movie, Jay slowly
finds herself plagued by strange, freakish
visions.
She gets the inescapable sense of someone
or something following her.
It can look like a stranger or someone she
knows, only she can see it, and she dies if
it ever catches her.
She now knows that death will relentlessly
creep toward her, and she has got to find
a way to stop it.
The next day, as per complaints, the police
investigate, but they cannot find the naked
woman or Hugh.
He was living under a false identity, and
we can guess that his only aim was to find
someone to pass on the curse he had gotten
into.
By now, Jay has begun to have more nightmarish
visions and encounters with that "something."
At school, she sees an old woman walking towards
her, wearing a hospital gown, and this woman
was obviously invisible to others.
Jay is terrified.
Her sister Kelly, and her friends, Paul Bolduan
and Yara Davis, agree to help her even though
they don't believe in her seemingly paranoid
ravings that appear gibberish to them.
Despite having any evidence of this creature's
existence, her friends decide to support her.
Paul and Yara spend the night in Jay and Kelly's
home with them.
That night, they hear someone smashing the
kitchen window.
While Paul goes to find out what that was,
Jay, who is inside the house, sees a scruffy,
bedraggled, urinating, half-naked woman walking
towards her.
Horror-stricken Jay runs upstairs to the others
who cannot see the wobbly woman.
She then sees another entity, this time a
tall man, entering the bedroom.
Jay flees the house.
Her friends follow and catch up to her at
a nearby playground.
Jay's friends had not believed her at first,
but later they too begin to see and feel the
phantom assassins trying to intimidate and
terrorize the hell out of their friend.
Now they all band together to face this burden
and help defend each other, especially Jay.
They must now together find a way to escape
the horrors that seem to be only a very few
steps behind.
They begin with finding out who Hugh really
is, or maybe, was.
They get their neighbor Greg Hannigan's help
and discover that Hughe’s real name is Jeff
Redmond.
They decide to trace him to his address.
When Jeff's mother answers the door, Jay is
dumbfounded.
She recognizes that face.
It clicks, and she realizes that the naked
woman who had followed her and Jeff at Packard
Plant had the same look.
It had apparently taken the form of Jeff's
mom, Mrs. Redmond.
They have a talk.
Jeff tells them that the entity had begun
pursuing him after a one-night stand with
someone.
He assures Jay that she can pass it on by
having sex with someone else.
Later that day, good man Greg drives Jay,
Kelly, Yara, and Paul to his family's lake
house.
There, he . While spending time on the lakefront,
the entity once again appears, and this time
it has taken the form of Yara.
It attacks Jay.
Her friends come running and break a chair
over its body, and Jay shoots it in the head.
They think they have gotten rid of it, but
to their horror, the thing recovers unharmed
and once again attacks Jay.
Now it has taken the form of a boy who lives
next door to Jay.
She did not have the strength to fight it
again.
She gets into Greg's car, drives blindly,
and crashes into a cornfield.
What Jay remembers next is waking up in a
hospital with a broken arm.
Her friends go to visit her.
Something unexpected and surprising happens
here at the hospital.
Greg, who comes to see Jay, says that he does
not believe in the existence of any such entity.
Saying so, he has sex with Jay right at the
hospital.
Days passed after the incident.
Next time Jay sees the entity in the form
of Greg.
Now that she had passed on the curse to Greg,
it was following Greg and not her.
The entity in the form of Greg itself walks
towards his house, smashes a window, and enters.
Jay, who has seen all this happening, tries
to warn the real Greg.
She telephones him, but he does not answer.
Jay knows she has got to do something, so
she runs to his house.
She sees that the entity has changed its form
again.
It now looks like Greg's mother, half-naked.
She knocks on his door and attacks him.
Everything happens so suddenly, and stupefied,
Jay watches the entity having sex with a dead
Greg.
She flees by car.
Jay is once again in a lot of horrors.
Now that the entity had killed Greg, she knew
that it would go back to the person who had
passed it on to him.
Fully knowing that it was her, she realized
it might have already begun to follow her
all again.
Jay decides to spend that night outdoors.
She drives to a beach, and there she notices
three young men on a boat.
Jay gets undressed and walks into the water.
In the next scene, Jay is back home.
Her friend Paul is with her, and he is surprisingly
ready to take the risk.
Paul offers Jaime the opportunity to pass
on her curse to him, but she refuses.
Their group once again gets together, knowing
that it was now or never.
After a lot of thinking, they come up with
a plan.
It was to kill the evil using electric shock.
Paul, Jay, Kelly, and Yara break into an indoor
public pool.
They plug in dozens of electrical appliances
like hairdryers, televisions, toaster ovens,
and more, all around the pool.
They would first lure the creature into the
swimming pool, keeping Jay as a bait, and
then drop the electrical devices into the
water to electrocute and end it.
It was then time to come together for their
last fight.
This is where we enter into the film's thrilling
and terrifying climax.
Everyone and everything was set and ready.
Jay waits in the swimming pool and indeed
spots her enemy.
To her shock, it had taken the form of someone
whom she had not foreseen.
It looked like her deceased father.
Though it is not clearly mentioned in the
movie who "it" impersonates during the climax,
theories suggest that it was Jay's dead dad.
Jay's distress is clearly seen on her face,
and when her sister Kelly asks her what she
sees, Jay replies, "I don't want to tell you."
We can see that the entity is a middle-aged
man with a beard, and we also know that it
can take the form of the loved ones of its
victims.
It might not click to you at first, but the
pictures in Jay's home have this same bearded
man.
So, Jay has to kill her dad.
Though it is traumatic, she knows she has
to fight it because she has got no choice.
Her friends are all ready for action, but
things don't go according to what they had
planned.
It seemed that the enemy had eavesdropped
on their plan.
Instead of entering the pool, it hurls the
electrical devices into the pool.
Jay was the one in the water.
Some of the appliances collide with her and
draw blood.
While Jay was struggling with hurt and trying
to stay afloat, her friends, who couldn't
wait and watch their friend in the hands of
death, intervene.
They begin their fight.
It was going to be tough and startling as
they were to fight an enemy invisible to them.
In the middle of all that mess, Paul fires
at invisible targets where he thinks the creature
is.
He ends up shooting the entity but also in
the process.
Once shot, Kelly somehow manages to throw
a sheet over its head so that it could be
shot in the head.
Paul hits it once again, and the entity falls
into the pool.
Meanwhile, Jay, who is in the pool, is still
shocked by everything that was happening.
As she tries to swim out, the creature grabs
her and begins to pull helpless Jay underwater.
Paul manages to shoot it again.
That gives Jay some time to escape.
As she swims away from her curse, she sees
the pool turning red with blood.
The creature seems to be dead and defeated.
Now that they have won the war, Jay and Paul
get intimate after they are home.
We may think that it's all over and that Jay
and Paul would have a happily ever after.
But things take a dramatic turn.
After their night together, Paul is seen slowly
driving past prostitutes.
This tells us that Paul considers the possibility
of "it" coming back and following him.
In the movie's last scene, Paul and Jay are
walking down the road hand in hand while a
shadowy something is seen slowly approaching
them from behind.
That's where the film ends.
So, as you can see, the director has given
his movie an open ending and has left it to
us.
Looking at its conclusion and how the film
was both a critical and commercial success,
one might expect a sequel of "It Follows."
In an interview with Vulture, the director
of the film David Robert Mitchell said that
he settled on this ending so that people could
make up their own stories about what it means.
So, from its close, . It seems that every
time Jay and Paul get intimate, they will
pass on the curse to each other.
"It Follows," according to critics, . The
movie has an IMDb rating of 6.8 on 10, and
if you are a fan of this genre, the film is
a must-see.
It will probably creep up on you.
Subscribe to watch more videos like this.
Turn on post notifications and leave alike.
It really helps the channel out!
Thank you for watching!